ยง 9-311. PERFECTION OF SECURITY INTERESTS IN PROPERTY SUBJECT TO CERTAIN STATUTES, REGULATIONS, AND TREATIES.
(a) [Security interest subject to
	other law.]
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d), the filing
	of a
financing statement
is not necessary
	or effective to perfect a security interest in property subject to:
(1) a statute, regulation, or treaty of the United States
	whose requirements for a security interest's obtaining priority over the rights
	of a
lien creditor
with respect to the property
	preempt Section
9-310(a)
;
(2) [list any statute
	covering automobiles, trailers, mobile homes, boats, farm tractors, or the like,
	which provides for a security interest to be indicated on a
certificate of title
as
	a condition or result of perfection, and any non-Uniform Commercial Code central
	filing statute]; or
(3) a statute
	of another jurisdiction which provides for a security interest to be indicated
	on a
certificate of title
as a condition or result of the security interest's obtaining
	priority over the rights of a
lien creditor
with
	respect to the property.
(b) [Compliance with other law.]
Compliance with the requirements of a statute, regulation,
	or treaty described in subsection (a) for obtaining priority over the rights
	of a
lien creditor
is equivalent to the filing
	of a
financing statement
under this article.
	Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) and Sections
9-313
and
9-316(d)
and
(e)
for
goods
covered
	by a
certificate of title
, a security interest
	in property subject to a statute, regulation, or treaty described in subsection
	(a) may be perfected only by compliance with those requirements, and a security
	interest so perfected remains perfected notwithstanding a change in the use
	or transfer of possession of the collateral.
(c) [Duration and renewal of perfection.]
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) and Section
9-316(d)
and
(e)
,
	duration and renewal of perfection of a security interest perfected by compliance
	with the requirements prescribed by a statute, regulation, or treaty described
	in subsection (a) are governed by the statute, regulation, or treaty. In other
	respects, the security interest is subject to this article.
(d) [Inapplicability to certain inventory.]
During any period in which collateral subject to a statute specified in subsection (a)(2) is
inventory
held
	for sale or lease by a person or leased by that person as lessor and that person
	is in the business of selling
goods
of that
	kind, this section does not apply to a security interest in that collateral
	created by that person.
Legislative Note:
This Article contemplates that perfection of a security interest in goods covered by a certificate of title occurs upon receipt by appropriate State officials of a properly tendered application for a certificate of title on which the security interest is to be indicated, without a relation back to an earlier time.  States whose certificate-of-title statutes provide for perfection at a different time or contain a relation-back provision should amend the statutes accordingly.
