ยง 9-404. RIGHTS ACQUIRED BY ASSIGNEE; CLAIMS AND DEFENSES AGAINST ASSIGNEE.
(a) [Assignee's rights subject to
	terms, claims, and defenses; exceptions.]
Unless an
account debtor
has
	made an enforceable agreement not to assert defenses or claims, and subject
	to subsections (b) through (e), the rights of an assignee are subject to:
(1) all terms of the agreement between the account debtor
	and assignor and any defense or claim in recoupment arising from the transaction
	that gave rise to the contract; and
(2) any other defense or claim of the account debtor against
	the assignor which accrues before the account debtor receives a notification
	of the assignment
authenticated
by the assignor
	or the assignee.
(b) [Account debtor's claim reduces
	amount owed to assignee.]
Subject to subsection (c) and except as otherwise provided
	in subsection (d), the claim of an
account debtor
against
	an assignor may be asserted against an assignee under subsection (a) only to
	reduce the amount the account debtor owes.
(c) [Rule for individual under other
	law.]
This section is subject to law other than this article
	which establishes a different rule for an
account
	debtor
who is an individual and who incurred the obligation primarily for
	personal, family, or household purposes.
(d) [Omission of required statement
	in consumer transaction.]
In a
consumer transaction
,
	if a
record
evidences the
account
	debtor
's obligation, law other than this article requires that the record
	include a statement to the effect that the account debtor's recovery against
	an assignee with respect to claims and defenses against the assignor may not
	exceed amounts paid by the account debtor under the record, and the record does
	not include such a statement, the extent to which a claim of an account debtor
	against the assignor may be asserted against an assignee is determined as if
	the record included such a statement.
(e) [Inapplicability to health-care-insurance
	receivable.]
This section does not apply to an assignment of a
health-care-insurance
		receivable
.
