ยง 3-605. DISCHARGE	OF SECONDARY OBLIGORS.
(a) If a
person
		entitled to enforce
an
instrument
releases the
		obligation of a principal obligor in whole or in part, and another party to
		the instrument is a secondary obligor with respect to the obligation of that
		principal obligor, the following rules apply:
(1) Any obligations of the principal obligor to the secondary
	obligor with respect to any previous payment by the secondary obligor are not
	affected. Unless the terms of the release preserve the secondary obligor's recourse,
	the principal obligor is discharged, to the extent of the release, from any
	other duties to the secondary obligor under this article.
(2) Unless the terms of the release provide that the person
	entitled to enforce the instrument retains the right to enforce the instrument
	against the secondary obligor, the secondary obligor is discharged to the same
	extent as the principal obligor from any unperformed portion of its obligation
	on the instrument. If the instrument is a check and the obligation of the secondary
	obligor is based on an indorsement of the check, the secondary obligor is discharged
	without regard to the language or circumstances of the discharge or other release.
(3) If the secondary obligor is not discharged under paragraph
	(2), the secondary obligor is discharged to the extent of the value of the consideration
	for the release, and to the extent that the release would otherwise cause the
	secondary obligor a loss.
(b) If a
person
		entitled to enforce
an
instrument
grants a principal
		obligor an extension of the time at which one or more payments are due on the
		instrument and another party to the instrument is a secondary obligor with
		respect	to the obligation of that principal obligor, the following rules apply:
(1) Any obligations of the principal obligor to the secondary
	obligor with respect to any previous payment by the secondary obligor are not
	affected. Unless the terms of the extension preserve the secondary obligor's
	recourse, the extension correspondingly extends the time for performance of
	any other duties owed to the secondary obligor by the principal obligor under
	this article.
(2) The secondary obligor is discharged to the extent
	that	the extension would otherwise cause the secondary obligor a loss.
(3) To the extent that the secondary obligor is not discharged
	under paragraph (2), the secondary obligor may perform its obligations to a
	person entitled to enforce the instrument as if the time for payment had not
	been extended or, unless the terms of the extension provide that the person
	entitled to enforce the instrument retains the right to enforce the instrument
	against the secondary obligor as if the time for payment had not been extended,
	treat the time for performance of its obligations as having been extended correspondingly.
(c) If a
person
		entitled to enforce
an
instrument
agrees, with
		or without
consideration
, to a modification of
		the obligation of a principal obligor other than a complete or partial release
		or an extension of the due date and another party to the instrument is a secondary
		obligor with respect to the obligation of that principal obligor, the following
		rules apply:
(1) Any obligations of the principal obligor to the secondary
	obligor with respect to any previous payment by the secondary obligor are not
	affected. The modification correspondingly modifies any other duties owed to
	the secondary obligor by the principal obligor under this article.
(2) The secondary obligor is discharged from any unperformed
	portion of its obligation to the extent that the modification would otherwise
	cause the secondary obligor a loss.
(3) To the extent that the secondary obligor is not discharged
	under paragraph (2), the secondary obligor may satisfy its obligation on the
	instrument as if the modification had not occurred, or treat its obligation
	on the instrument as having been modified correspondingly.
(d) If the obligation of a principal
	obligor is secured by an interest in collateral, another
party
to
	the instrument is a secondary obligor with respect to that obligation, and a
	person entitled to enforce the instrument impairs the value of the interest
	in collateral, the obligation of the secondary obligor is discharged to the
	extent of the impairment. The value of an interest in collateral is impaired
	to the extent the value of the interest is reduced to an amount less than the
	amount of the recourse of the secondary obligor, or the reduction in value of
	the interest causes an increase in the amount by which the amount of the recourse
	exceeds the value of the interest. For purposes of this subsection, impairing
	the value of an interest in collateral includes failure to obtain or maintain
	perfection or recordation of the interest in collateral, release of collateral
	without substitution of collateral of equal value or equivalent reduction of
	the underlying obligation, failure to perform a duty to preserve the value of
	collateral owed, under Article 9 or other law, to a debtor or other person secondarily
	liable, and failure to comply with applicable law in disposing of or otherwise
	enforcing the interest in collateral.
(e) A secondary obligor is not discharged
	under subsection (a)(3), (b), (c), or (d) unless the
person
	entitled to enforce
the
instrument
knows that
	the person is a secondary obligor or has notice under Section
3-419(c)
that
	the instrument was signed for accommodation.
(f) A secondary obligor is not discharged
	under this section if the secondary obligor consents to the event or conduct
	that is the basis of the discharge, or the instrument or a separate agreement
	of the party provides for waiver of discharge under this section specifically
	or by general language indicating that parties waive defenses based on suretyship
	or impairment of collateral. Unless the circumstances indicate otherwise, consent
	by the principal obligor to an act that would lead to a discharge under this
	section constitutes consent to that act by the secondary obligor if the secondary
	obligor controls the principal obligor or deals with the person entitled to
	enforce the instrument on behalf of the principal obligor.
(g) A release or extension preserves
	a secondary obligor's recourse if the terms of the release or extension provide
	that the person entitled to enforce the instrument retains the right to enforce
	the instrument against the secondary obligor; and the recourse of the secondary
	obligor continues as though the release or extension had not been granted.
(h) Except as otherwise provided
	in subsection (i), a secondary obligor asserting discharge under this section
	has the burden of persuasion both with respect to the occurrence of the acts
	alleged to harm the secondary obligor and loss or prejudice caused by those
	acts.
(i) If the secondary obligor demonstrates
	prejudice caused by an impairment of its recourse, and the circumstances of
	the case indicate that the amount of loss is not reasonably susceptible of calculation
	or requires proof of facts that are not ascertainable, it is presumed that the
	act impairing recourse caused a loss or impairment equal to the liability of
	the secondary obligor on the instrument. In that event, the burden of persuasion
	as to any lesser amount of the loss is on the person entitled to enforce the
	instrument.